Marching Forward, Marching in Circles: A History of Problems and Dilemmas in Teacher Preparation
This essay tracks the history of teacher preparation, from its origins in the early republic to the present. In so doing, it tells two stories. The first is a story about problems—a linear story in which problems are discovered, potential solutions are generated, and positive results are achieved. It moves from the past to the future and from the old to the new. The other story is about dilemmas. And because dilemmas cannot be solved, the passage of time leads back to the original point of departure. Solutions are tried and discarded, but as the past is forgotten, they eventually are embraced again. In telling these two stories, the essay proceeds chronologically, highlighting improvements in teacher preparation practice over time. That relatively linear chronology, however, is organized into four periods, which reveal not a march of progress, but an unmindful return to the once-maligned practices of the past.
Flipping the Classroom in Teacher Education: Implications for Motivation and Learning
In teacher education, it is imperative that course design, method of instruction, and classroom procedures align with the content. One way to achieve this may be to “flip” the classroom. While flipped classrooms have received considerable attention in recent years, much remains unknown about their effect on basic psychological needs or learning outcomes of preservice teachers. The purpose of the present study was to address this gap by utilizing a quasi-experimental design to examine differences in motivation and objective learning outcomes after controlling for socioeconomic status (SES) and grade point average (GPA) between traditional and flipped sections of a foundational educational course (N = 263). Results revealed that preservice teachers in the traditional section had significantly higher scores on two of the motivation outcomes (e.g., intrinsic and identified regulation), but that preservice teachers in the flipped sections had significantly higher scores on several indices of objective learning outcomes. Implications for teacher education are discussed.
Roles of Urban Indigenous Community Members in Collaborative Field-Based Teacher Preparation
This qualitative case study explored a community–university partnership for teacher preparation with an urban Indigenous community organization. The study examined the roles of Indigenous community partners as co-teacher educators working to better prepare teachers for the needs of urban Indigenous children and communities. The author collected data through focus groups with Indigenous participants before and after engagement with the partnership, direct observations of partnership activities where Indigenous participants interacted with teacher candidates and university faculty, and offered individual interviews for all participants. Indigenous Postcolonial Theory (IPT) guided this research and offered a lens to examine the perspectives of urban Indigenous community members engaged as co-teacher educators in field-based teacher preparation. This study held implications for continued development of Indigenous community–university partnerships and furthering the role of community leaders in teacher preparation to advance efforts of Indigenous postcolonialism through self-education.
What Makes Good Teachers Good? A Cross-Case Analysis of the Connection Between Teacher Effectiveness and Student Achievement
This study examined classroom practices of effective versus less effective teachers (based on student achievement gain scores in reading and mathematics). In Phase I of the study, hierarchical linear modeling was used to assess the teacher effectiveness of 307 fifth-grade teachers in terms of student learning gains. In Phase II, 32 teachers (17 top quartile and 15 bottom quartile) participated in an in-depth cross-case analysis of their instructional and classroom management practices. Classroom observation findings (Phase II) were compared with teacher effectiveness data (Phase I) to determine the impact of selected teacher behaviors on the teachers’ overall effectiveness drawn from a single year of value-added data.
Content Knowledge for Teaching: What Makes It Special?
This article reports the authors' efforts to develop a practice-based theory of content knowledge for teaching built on Shulman's (1986) notion of pedagogical content knowledge. As the concept of pedagogical content knowledge caught on, it was in need of theoretical development, analytic clarification, and empirical testing. The purpose of the study was to investigate the nature of professionally oriented subject matter knowledge in mathematics by studying actual mathematics teaching and identifying mathematical knowledge for teaching based on analyses of the mathematical problems that arise in teaching. In conjunction, measures of mathematical knowledge for teaching were developed. These lines of research indicate at least two empirically discernable subdomains within pedagogical content knowledge (knowledge of content and students and knowledge of content and teaching) and an important subdomain of “pure” content knowledge unique to the work of teaching, specialized content knowledge , which is distinct from the common content knowledge needed by teachers and nonteachers alike. The article concludes with a discussion of the next steps needed to develop a useful theory of content knowledge for teaching.
Rethinking the Connections Between Campus Courses and Field Experiences in College- and University-Based Teacher Education
This article examines a variety of work currently going on across the country in newly created hybrid spaces to more closely connect campus courses and field experiences in university-based preservice teacher education. It is argued that the old paradigm of university-based teacher education where academic knowledge is viewed as the authoritative source of knowledge about teaching needs to change to one where there is a nonhierarchical interplay between academic, practitioner, and community expertise. It is argued that this new epistemology for teacher education will create expanded learning opportunities for prospective teachers that will better prepare them to be successful in enacting complex teaching practices.
Constructing 21st-Century Teacher Education
Much of what teachers need to know to be successful is invisible to lay observers, leading to the view that teaching requires little formal study and to frequent disdain for teacher education programs. The weakness of traditional program models that are collections of largely unrelated courses reinforce this low regard. This article argues that we have learned a great deal about how to create stronger, more effective teacher education programs. Three critical components of such programs include tight coherence and integration among courses and between course work and clinical work in schools, extensive and intensely supervised clinical work integrated with course work using pedagogies that link theory and practice, and closer, proactive relationships with schools that serve diverse learners effectively and develop and model good teaching. The article also urges that schools of education should resist pressures to water down preparation, which ultimately undermine the preparation of entering teachers, the reputation of schools of education, and the strength of the profession.
Reframing for Social Justice: The Influence of Critical Friendship Groups on Preservice Teachers’ Reflective Practice
A primary goal of teacher preparation programs should be to develop the reflective and critical problem-solving capacities of preservice teachers, especially social justice–oriented programs that prepare teachers to work in urban schools with historically underserved youth. Through an analysis of participants’ biweekly posts to discussion boards, this qualitative case study examines common dilemmas for a group of 11 racially diverse undergraduate preservice middle school teachers and descriptions of their process during Critical Friendship Group protocols. Results reveal that most dilemmas revolved around relationships with others, curriculum and instruction, and perceived deficiencies of students. However, through the process of engaging in reflective conversations supported by classroom activities, some participants reenvisioned the initial dilemma, such as reframing deficiency views as pedagogical or relationship issues. In addition, all participants articulated benefits of the Critical Friendship Group meetings in their reflections. Implications for improving supports for critical, collaborative reflection during student teaching are discussed.
Using Habits of Mind, Intelligent Behaviors, and Educational Theories to Create a Conceptual Framework for Developing Effective Teaching Dispositions
Despite the heated debates about dispositions in teacher education, most accrediting agencies continue to put dispositions among their priorities. The authors of the current article concur with the value of using Dewey to understand how habits can be clustered to better understand intelligent teaching dispositions. But, can we extend Dewey’s epistemology to learning theories in a manner that informs the making of teaching conduct more intelligent? To address this question, the authors applied qualitative content analysis to review the literature. Through a deductive approach, dispositions as Habits of Mind were related to educational theories using intelligent behaviors as the common denominator. The conclusion is that dispositions can be clustered around Habits of Mind that are related directly to educational learning theories vis-à-vis thoughtfulness, and to learning theories that support learning or mindfulness. Grounding dispositions as habits of mind in selected educational theories may guide and support the professional development of teaching dispositions.
Rethinking Student Teacher Feedback: Using a Self-Assessment Resource With Student Teachers
This study examines 10 preservice teachers’ use of Freiberg’﻿s Person-Centered Learning Assessment (PCLA), a self-assessment measure. The PCLA serves as an individualized resource for educators to assess their classroom teaching and learning particularly in the affective domain. Study findings indicate that the 10 student teachers identified future pedagogical changes as a result of utilizing the PCLA, with eight student teachers specifically identifying changes in their classrooms prior to completion of the study. As explored in this study, self-assessments seem to provide novice educators with a unique form of feedback and have the potential to lead to deeper levels of pedagogical self-reflection and resulting changes.
Preparing Teachers to Engage Rural Students in Computational Thinking Through Robotics, Game Design, and Culturally Responsive Teaching
This article examines teacher preparation and teacher change in engineering and computer science education. We examined culturally responsive teaching self-efficacy (CRTSE), culturally responsive teaching outcome expectancy (CRTOE) beliefs, and attitudes toward computational thinking (CT) as teachers participated in one of three treatment groups: robotics only, game design only, or blended robotics/game design. Descriptive data revealed that CRTSE gain scores were higher in the robotics only and blended contexts than in the game design only context. However, CRTOE beliefs were consistent across all treatment groups. In regard to CT attitudes, teachers’ gain scores were higher in the game design only and blended contexts than in the robotics only context. In addition, there were differences by treatment group related to STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) practices, while cultural artifacts were evident in each learning environment. The results of this study reveal some variability by treatment type and inform future research on equitable practices in engineering and computer science education.
Keeping Our Best? A Survival Analysis Examining a Measure of Preservice Teacher Quality and Teacher Attrition
Preparing, recruiting, and retaining high-quality teachers into the profession has been a concern of policy makers and practitioners for some time. Teacher attrition is problematic and costly for schools and districts. However, relatively few studies have investigated the relationship between preservice teacher quality and teacher attrition. In this study, we analyze data from an apprenticeship-style teacher preparation program to understand the relationship between a measure of preservice teacher quality—student teachers’ observational scores—and their decisions to (a) enter into the profession, and (b) stay in the profession within the first 2 years after graduation. We find that more qualified student teachers are more likely to enter into the profession and stay in the profession, even after controlling for student teachers’ demographic characteristics and their academic achievement.
The problem of teacher education
Since the time teacher education emerged as an identifiable activity, there have been few periods when it was not being critiqued, studied, rethought, reformed, and, often, excoriated. The title of this editorial does not refer to the “problem of teacher education” in a pejorative sense, however. Rather, the phrase is intended to draw attention to teacher education as a problem in three senses—the problem or challenge every nation faces in providing well-prepared and effective teachers for its children; teacher education as a research problem, which involves a larger set of educational issues, questions, and conditions that define an important concern of the scholarly community; and teacher education as a problematic and contested enterprise, troubled by enduring and value-laden questions about the purposes and goals of education in a democratic society. This editorial concentrates on teacher education over the last 50 years. It suggests that during that time, as a society and an educational community, we have conceptualized and defined the “problem of teacher education” in three quite different ways: as a training problem, a learning problem, and a policy problem. The editorial concludes with concerns about the current emphasis.
Effective Reflective Practice: In Search of Meaning in Learning about Teaching
Reflective practice has an allure that is seductive in nature because it rings true for most people as something useful and informing. However, for reflection to genuinely be a lens into the world of practice, it is important that the nature of reflection be identified in such a way as to offer ways of questioning taken-for-granted assumptions and encouraging one to see his or her practice through others’eyes. The relationship between time, experience, and expectations of learning through reflection is an important element of reflection, and to teach about reflection requires contextual anchors to make learning episodes meaningful. This article examines the nature of reflection and suggests how it might become effective reflective practice that can be developed and enhanced through teacher preparation programs.
Preparing Culturally Responsive Teachers: Rethinking the Curriculum
To successfully move the field of teacher education beyond the fragmented and superficial treatment of diversity that currently prevails, teacher educators must articulate a vision of teaching and learning in a diverse society and use that vision to systematically guide the infusion of multicultural issues throughout the preservice curriculum. A vision is offered of culturally responsive teachers that can serve as the starting point for conversations among teacher educators in this process. In this vision, culturally responsive teachers (a) are socioculturally conscious, (b) have affirming views of students from diverse backgrounds, (c) see themselves as responsible for and capable of bringing about change to make schools more equitable, (d) understand how learners construct knowledge and are capable of promoting knowledge construction, (e) know about the lives of their students, and (f) design instruction that builds on what their students already know while stretching them beyond the familiar.
Teachers’ Content Knowledge and Pedagogical Content Knowledge: The Role of Structural Differences in Teacher Education
Pedagogical content knowledge (PCK) and content knowledge (CK) are key components of teacher competence that affect student progress. However, little is known about how teacher education affects the development of CK and PCK. To address this question, our research group constructed tests to directly assess mathematics teachers’ CK and PCK. Based on these tests, we compared the PCK and CK of four groups of mathematics teachers at different points in their teaching careers in Germany. Confirmatory factor analyses showed that PCK and CK measurement was satisfactorily invariant across the teacher populations considered. As expected, the largest differences in CK and PCK were found between the beginning and the end of initial teacher education. Differences in the structures of teacher education were reasonably well reflected in participants’ CK and PCK.
Capturing the Complex, Situated, and Active Nature of Teaching Through Inquiry-Oriented Standards for Teaching
Given widespread acceptance of the role of teaching in improving student outcomes, it is not surprising that policy makers have turned to teaching standards as a lever for educational improvement. There are, however, long-standing critiques of standards that suggest they are reductionist and promote a dualism between theory and practice. Our purpose here is to propose a model of Teaching for Better Learning (TBL) that responds to those critiques and that captures the complexity of teaching rather than focusing on discrete elements. Our model foregrounds the salience of teachers’ own situations and the active nature of teachers’ practice in a way that integrates practice with relevant theory. We outline how the TBL model can be used to derive inquiry-oriented teaching standards, an alternative approach that challenges widely accepted conventions for the design of standards and, we argue, might better support the improvement of teaching and learning.
Impact of Coaching on Preservice Teachers’ Use of Embedded Instruction in Inclusive Preschool Classrooms
The purpose of the present study was to examine the impact of training plus coaching on special education preservice teachers’ use of embedded instruction learning trials (EILTs) within ongoing activities of inclusive preschool classrooms. A multiple baseline across participants design was used to investigate the relationships between coaching and preservice teachers’ implementation of EILTs across settings and over time. Corollary relationships between preservice teachers’ implementation and child learning outcomes were also examined. Results indicate training plus coaching is an effective method for increasing preservice teachers’ use of EILTs. Preservice teachers generalized their use of EILTs to another setting and maintained their use during follow-up sessions conducted 1 to 8 weeks after coaching ended. Moreover, as preservice teachers’ accuracy of implementing EILTs increased, percentage of children’s correct responding increased. Implications for future research and practice are discussed.
Social Justice Teaching Through the Sympathetic Touch of Caring and High Expectations for Students of Color
This 1-year qualitative study examined the ways in which nine social justice–oriented teachers in racially segregated schools defined and fostered sympathy with low-income students of color. These teachers reportedly defined sympathy on the basis of caring and high expectations, which challenged traditional notions of sympathy as a teacher cue for low ability and lowered expectations for learning. Building upon W. E. B. Du Bois’s concept of sympathetic touch, the findings of this study revealed that the teachers fostered sympathy through perceptions of fairness in educational opportunities, education as a method to challenge class oppression, the use of curriculum to communicate caring, and high expectations to promote students’ histories, self-respect, and preparation for a more just future. The results of these findings have implications for how society currently views teacher effectiveness, and future discussions regarding teacher education, school accountability, and teacher evaluation.
A Taxonomy of Instructional Learning Opportunities in Teachers’ Workgroup Conversations
Many school-improvement efforts include time for teacher collaboration, with the assumption that teachers’ collective work supports instructional improvement. However, not all collaboration equally supports learning that would support improvement. As a part of a 5-year study in two urban school districts, we collected video records of more than 100 mathematics teacher workgroup meetings in 16 different middle schools, selected as “best cases” of teacher collaboration. Building off of earlier discursive analyses of teachers’ collegial learning, we developed a taxonomy to describe how conversational processes differentially support teachers’ professional learning. We used the taxonomy to code our corpus, with each category signaling different learning opportunities. In this article, we present the taxonomy, illustrate the categories, and report the overall dearth of meetings with rich learning opportunities, even in this purposively sampled data set. This taxonomy provides a coding scheme for other researchers, as well as a map for workgroup facilitators aiming to deepen collaborative conversations.
Preservice Teachers’ Learning to Plan Intellectually Challenging Tasks
This study explores how and under which conditions preservice secondary science teachers (PSTs) engage in effective planning practices that incorporate intellectually challenging tasks into lessons. Drawing upon a situative perspective on learning, eight PSTs’ trajectories of participation in communities of practice are examined with a focus on planning throughout student teaching. Data include 32 sets of teaching artifacts, interviews with PSTs, interviews with methods course instructors, and interviews with mentor teachers. The analyses show that instructional tasks observed at the beginning of lessons link to the ways in which PSTs engage in the three interrelated processes of (a) framing instructional goals, (b) constructing a lesson scenario, and (c) addressing problems of practice. The consistencies and changes observed in the PSTs’ trajectories of planning reveal the dynamic, responsive, and contentious nature of planning situated in local contexts. Three implications for designing productive learning opportunities for PSTs are discussed.
Mathematics Anxiety: One Size Does Not Fit All
Mathematics educators agree elementary teachers should possess confidence and competence in teaching mathematics. Many prospective elementary teachers (particularly women) pursue careers in elementary teaching despite personal repeated experiences of mathematics anxiety. Previous studies of mathematics anxiety have tended to focus on physical sensations that occur during test-taking situations. This study analyzes how three women prospective elementary teachers described, explained, and related their experiences of mathematics anxiety while learning mathematics as K-12 students and while learning to teach mathematics. My research reveals that mathematics anxiety may reach beyond assessment situations and impact women prospective elementary teachers’ larger mathematical histories. I show how women prospective elementary teachers may interpret mathematics anxiety as specific fears (e.g., loss of social belonging, loss of personal identity, or loss of practical competency) and how specific coping strategies may be invented to cope with the fear. I present evidence of how coping strategies may impede mathematics learning.
Informed and Uninformed Naïve Assessment Constructors’ Strategies for Item Selection
We present a descriptive analysis of 53 naïve assessment constructors’ explanations for selecting test items to include on a summative assessment. We randomly assigned participants to an informed and uninformed condition (i.e., informed participants read an article describing a Table of Specifications). Through recursive thematic analyses of participants’ explanations, we identified 14 distinct strategies that coalesced into three families of strategies: Alignment, Item Evaluation, and Affective Evaluation. We describe the nature of the strategies and the degree to which participants used strategies with frequency and effect size analysis. Results can inform teacher education on assessment construction through explicit instruction in the three families of strategies identified.
University-Based Teacher Preparation and Middle Grades Teacher Effectiveness
For over two decades, there have been calls to assess the relationship of the features of teacher preparation programs to teacher effectiveness, to provide guidance for program improvement. At the middle grades level, theory suggests that coursework in educational psychology is particularly important for teacher effectiveness. Using 4 years of data from 15 middle grades teacher preparation programs, this study estimates the relationship of their structural features, that is required elements of coursework and fieldwork, to student achievement gains in math and English/Language Arts. Findings suggest that few requirements are positively associated with achievement gains.
Collaborating to Address the Challenge of Academic Language
Teacher candidates rely on mentors working in their college-based teacher education programs and mentors working in the college’s partner schools to support their development as future teachers as well as their Teacher Performance Assessment (edTPA) preparations. This study describes a semester-long collaboration between a clinical professor, teacher candidates from her college, and teachers from the college’s partner schools, as they engage in shared readings and study group sessions focused on the topic of academic language, a topic that is central to national learning standards, the edTPA, and teaching in an urban context. The main goal of this collaboration was to provide teacher candidates an opportunity to study a relevant topic in depth with inservice professionals to enrich their clinical experiences. The objective of the study was to determine the ways in which inservice and preservice teachers’ conceptualize the topic of academic language and connect this thinking to their attempts to address the Common Core Learning Standards.
The Three-Story Challenge: Implications of the Next Generation Science Standards for Teacher Preparation
The foundational document of the current science standards movement—the Framework for K-12 Science Education—is grounded in research about how students from diverse backgrounds learn science and the conditions under which they can participate in knowledge-building activities of the discipline. We argue that teacher educators should use powerful principles for instruction, derived from the research referenced in the Framework, to inform the design of courses and other preparatory experiences for novices. This implementation strategy contrasts with an alignment approach, in which novices would be asked to familiarize themselves with the Next Generation Science Standards (NGSS), integrate student performance expectations into lesson plans, and teach activities similar to those described in the NGSS. We describe the more principled approach as a “three-story challenge” in which students, teachers, and teacher educators have responsibilities to learn and to take up new roles in the educational system that are fundamentally different from the status quo.
Seeing Is Believing: Promoting Visual Literacy in Elementary Social Studies
This study addresses the following questions: Does professional development (PD) designed to meet third-, fourth-, and fifth-grade teachers’ pedagogical and content needs influence how teachers teach and engage with graphical devices found in social studies texts? If so, what effect does that instruction and engagement have on students’ comprehension of those devices and social studies reading materials that contain them? We worked with teachers and students in a context-embedded PD series that emphasized literacy skills specific to standards that address accessing and sharing information (Common Core State Standards for English Language Arts) as social studies specialists (e.g., historians, geographers, economists; C3 Framework), with a particular focus on the graphical devices commonly found in social studies instructional materials (i.e., captioned images, maps, tables, timelines). Using teacher interviews, curricular materials, field notes, and student pre- and post-assessments as data sources, we explain the impact of this intervention on teaching and learning.
Scaling Up Three-Dimensional Science Learning Through Teacher-Led Study Groups Across a State
The vision for science teaching in the Framework for K-12 Science Education and the Next Generation Science Standards requires a radical departure from traditional science teaching. Science literacy is defined as three-dimensional (3D), in which students engage in science and engineering practices to develop and apply science disciplinary ideas and crosscutting concepts. This knowledge building presents many challenges for teachers. We describe a two-pronged program for scaling 3D science professional development (PD) across a state: (a) 24 teachers developed expertise in 3D learning and facilitating teacher study groups; (b) these peer facilitators led 22 study groups of teachers in 3D science activities, analyzing student learning, and investigating classroom interactions. We describe design approaches for supporting teacher and facilitator learning. We present analyses of teacher learning, including shifts in 3D science, beliefs, and pedagogical content knowledge that supports 3D science teaching, and consider implications for scalable design approaches for supporting science teacher learning.
New Standards Require Teaching More Statistics: Are Preservice Secondary Mathematics Teachers Ready?
Mathematics teacher education programs often need to respond to changing expectations and standards for K-12 curriculum and accreditation. New standards for high school mathematics in the United States include a strong emphasis in statistics. This article reports results from a mixed methods cross-institutional study examining the preparedness of preservice secondary mathematics teachers to teach statistics and identifying factors and experiences that influence their preparedness. Our results suggest that the cohort of teachers entering secondary mathematics classrooms in 2015-2016 were not well prepared to teach statistics. Specific suggestions are given for how teacher education programs must rise to the challenge of preparing their graduates to teach statistics.
History Teachers’ Knowledge of Inquiry Methods: An Analysis of Cognitive Processes Used During a Historical Inquiry
The present study explores secondary school history teachers’ knowledge of inquiry methods. To do so, a process model, outlining five core cognitive processes of inquiry in the history classroom, was developed based on a review of the literature. This process model was then used to analyze think-aloud protocols of 20 teachers’ reasoning during an inquiry task. It was found that less than half of the teachers used all cognitive processes during the inquiry. Based on the results, a distinction can be made between an integral, fragmentary, and cursory approach to inquiry. Further analysis suggests that there exists no clear pattern in the relation between teachers’ beliefs about the subject of history and their approach to inquiry. The implications for teacher training are discussed and outline how the process model could serve as an instructional tool that can contribute to a comprehensive training program for history teachers.
History Teachers’ Knowledge of Inquiry Methods: An Analysis of Cognitive Processes Used During a Historical Inquiry
The present study explores secondary school history teachers’ knowledge of inquiry methods. To do so, a process model, outlining five core cognitive processes of inquiry in the history classroom, was developed based on a review of the literature. This process model was then used to analyze think-aloud protocols of 20 teachers’ reasoning during an inquiry task. It was found that less than half of the teachers used all cognitive processes during the inquiry. Based on the results, a distinction can be made between an integral, fragmentary, and cursory approach to inquiry. Further analysis suggests that there exists no clear pattern in the relation between teachers’ beliefs about the subject of history and their approach to inquiry. The implications for teacher training are discussed and outline how the process model could serve as an instructional tool that can contribute to a comprehensive training program for history teachers.
An Examination of Preservice Teachers’ Capacity to Create Mathematical Modeling Problems for Children
This study examined preservice teachers’ (PSTs) capacity to create mathematical modeling problems (MMPs) for grades 1 to 3. PSTs created MMPs for their choice of grade level and aligned the mathematical content of their MMPs with the relevant mathematics curriculum. PSTs were given criteria adapted from Galbraith’s MMP design principles to guide their work. These criteria were then used to evaluate the resulting MMPs, leading to findings and implications relevant to two areas—mathematics teacher education, and the design and evaluation of MMPs for young children. Results highlight an inclination toward creating problems for higher grade levels as well as concerns regarding both the PSTs’ proficiency with the curriculum content and their capacity to create MMPs for particular content areas. Findings contribute to an important international conversation about the need for further research and development of resources aimed at supporting the integration of mathematical modeling in early childhood mathematics education.
Socially Inclusive Teaching: Belief, Design, Action as Pedagogic Work
Like other western nations such as the United States and the United Kingdom, Australia’s record of education outcomes for marginalized groups is troubling, whether the comparisons are made within the nation or with other OECD nations. Although recent Australian Governments have sought to overhaul funding for schools and universities, on their own, more resources for educational institutions are not enough to redress problems of disadvantage and to achieve social justice. Also required is a focus on the pedagogic work (PW) of teachers and, by implication, their teacher educators. Central to this article is the argument that pedagogy is the most strategic place to begin this work because of its location as a central message system in education. In this article we conceive of PW as comprising of belief, design, and action. From these are derived three principles on which to build a socially inclusive pedagogy that creates opportunities for all students, whatever their circumstances, to participate more fully in education. Our focus on advancing a conceptual understanding of socially inclusive pedagogy is informed by a theory and politics of transformation, which seek to engage with the deep structures that generate injustice within schools and teacher education.
Connecting Teacher Professional Development and Student Mathematics Achievement
The present study investigated the effects of Primarily Math, an inservice elementary mathematics specialist program. Primarily Math sought to augment the mathematical knowledge for teaching of kindergarten through third-grade teachers using a longitudinal multiple cohort design. Two sets of analyses were conducted. The first examined impact on teachers’ mathematical knowledge for teaching, attitudes toward learning mathematics, and beliefs about teaching and learning relative to a matched comparison group. Primarily Math teachers demonstrated greater knowledge for teaching Numbers and Operations and more positive attitudes toward learning mathematics, and more often endorsed student-centered beliefs about teaching and learning. The second set of analyses examined the extent to which students of three cohorts of Primarily Math teachers demonstrated more fall–spring growth in a measure of mathematics achievement relative to students of comparison-group teachers. There was a small but positive effect of participation in Primarily Math on student mathematics achievement.
Preparing Bilingual Teachers: Mediating Belonging With Multimodal Explorations in Language, Identity, and Culture
This study draws upon a survey of writing conceptions and cultural dispositions data, as well as multimodal compositions allowing bilingual teacher candidates to recursively explore and deepen the relationships between language, identity, and culture in learning. We found that teacher candidates did rethink the relationships through the multimodal tool. Moreover, their epistemic writing conceptions were correlated with high intercultural dispositions and multimodal complexity. The multimodal composition allowed candidates to follow individually distinct processes, but they all made more references to their imagined teaching practice at the end of the learning experience. These references were the result of, and resulted in, a deeper reflection of the relationships. Our results have implications for preparing teachers to confront the reality of diverse classrooms through more flexible pedagogical practices that allow for diverse modes of meaning making, such as the multimodal composition in this study.
“Change Happens Beyond the Comfort Zone”: Bringing Undergraduate Teacher-Candidates Into Activist Teacher Communities
This article shares findings from a qualitative study of an undergraduate urban education fellowship designed to connect teacher-candidates with activist teacher communities and explore questions of social justice, equity, and multicultural teaching. Fellows attended conferences, professional meetings, and on-campus dialogues over one semester. Interview transcripts and meeting notes were analyzed through the lenses of teacher inquiry and transformative learning theory. Findings reveal how teacher-candidates experienced shifts in their viewpoints through encountering new perspectives, discomfort with returning to their lives with new understandings, and a strong drive to further their learning about urban education. Within the context of a persistent gap between a mostly White, middle-class teaching force and a racially and socioeconomically diverse student population, this study offers an image of transformative preservice teacher education in which teacher-candidates encounter professional communities outside of the confines of the classroom.
Altering the Trajectory of the Self-Fulfilling Prophecy: Asset-Based Pedagogy and Classroom Dynamics
Prior research has contributed to our understanding about the ways teachers communicate their expectations to students, how students perceive differential teacher behaviors, and their effect on students’ own perceptions of ability and achievement. Despite more than half a century of this work, historically marginalized students continue to be underrepresented in a vast array of achievement outcomes. Scholars have argued that asset-based pedagogy is essential to effective teaching, but reviews of research repeatedly point to a need for empirical evidence. This article describes a study wherein asset-based practices are applied to a classroom dynamics framework to examine how teachers’ asset-based pedagogy beliefs and behaviors are associated with Latino students’ ethnic and reading achievement identity. Analyses revealed that teachers’ critical awareness moderates their expectancy, resulting in higher achievement; and teachers’ critical awareness and expectancy beliefs were found to be directly associated with teachers’ behaviors, which were in turn related to students’ ethnic and achievement identities. Implications for teacher education are discussed.
Effects of a Multimedia Professional Development Package on Inclusive Science Teachers’ Vocabulary Instruction
Vocabulary knowledge is vital for students’ success in school and beyond. However, students with disabilities and others who consistently score below their peers on various measures of vocabulary knowledge have difficulties in secondary-level content area courses. Because many students with disabilities are now educated primarily in general education classrooms, their teachers report needing more professional development on instructional strategies to support this population. Using a multiple-baseline design, we tested the efficacy of a multimedia, multicomponent professional development package in which middle school science teachers in inclusive classrooms promoted science vocabulary knowledge. The professional development package improved the quality of the teachers’ use of evidence-based vocabulary practices and increased the amount of time they spent explicitly teaching vocabulary in their classes.
Evaluating Prospective Teachers: Testing the Predictive Validity of the edTPA
We use longitudinal data from Washington State to provide estimates of the extent to which performance on the edTPA, a performance-based, subject-specific assessment of teacher candidates, is predictive of the likelihood of employment in the teacher workforce and value-added measures of teacher effectiveness. While edTPA scores are highly predictive of employment in the state’s public teaching workforce, evidence on the relationship between edTPA scores and teaching effectiveness is more mixed. Specifically, continuous edTPA scores are a significant predictor of student mathematics achievement in some specifications, but when we consider that the edTPA is a binary screen of teaching effectiveness (i.e., pass/fail), we find that passing the edTPA is significantly predictive of teacher effectiveness in reading but not in mathematics. We also find that Hispanic candidates in Washington were more than 3 times more likely to fail the edTPA after it became consequential in the state than non-Hispanic White candidates.
Does New Teacher Induction Really Improve Retention?
Policymakers have increasingly worked to combat teacher turnover by implementing induction programs for early-career teachers. Yet the existing evidence for the effects of induction on turnover is mixed. Drawing on data from the three most recent administrations of the Schools and Staffing and Teacher Follow-Up Surveys, as well as the Beginning Teacher Longitudinal Study, this study investigates whether different kinds of induction supports predict teacher turnover among nationally representative samples of first-year teachers. We find that receiving induction supports in the first year predicts less teacher migration and attrition, suggesting that using induction to reduce new teacher turnover is a promising policy trend. We also find that levels of induction support are fairly constant for different kinds of teachers and teachers in different kinds of schools. The exceptions are that teachers who are Black and who work in schools with more students who speak English as a second language report higher levels of induction supports.
Focusing on Teacher Learning Opportunities to Identify Potentially Productive Coaching Activities
Instructional improvement initiatives in many districts include instructional coaching as a primary form of job-embedded support for teachers. However, the coaching literature provides little guidance about what activities coaches should engage in with teachers to improve instruction. When researchers do propose activities, they rarely justify why those activities might support teacher learning. Drawing on the preservice and inservice teacher education literatures, we present a conceptual analysis of learning activities that have the potential to support mathematics and science teachers to improve practice. We argue that our analysis can inform research on mathematics and science coaching, coaching policies, and the design of professional learning for coaches.
Parsing the Practice of Teaching
Teacher education programs typically teach novices about one part of teaching at a time. We might offer courses on different topics—cultural foundations, learning theory, or classroom management—or we may parse teaching practice itself into a set of discrete techniques, such as core teaching practices, that can be taught individually. Missing from our courses is attention to the ultimate purpose of these discrete parts—how specific concepts can help teachers achieve their goals, or how specific procedures can help them achieve their goals. Because we are now shifting from a focus on bodies of knowledge to a focus on depictions of practice, this article examines our efforts to parse teaching practice into lists of discrete procedures. It argues that we need to pay less attention to the visible behaviors of teaching and more attention to the purposes that are served by those behaviors. As a way to begin a conversation about parsing teachers’ purposes, I offer a proposal for conceptualizing teaching as a practice that entails five persistent problems, each of which presents a difficult challenge to teachers, and all of which compete for teachers’ attention. Viewed in this way, the role of teacher education is not to offer solutions to these problems, but instead to help novices learn to analyze these problems and to evaluate alternative courses of action for how well they address these problems.
Getting Inside Rehearsals: Insights From Teacher Educators to Support Work on Complex Practice
In recent years, work in practice-based teacher education has focused on identifying and elaborating how teacher educators (TEs) use pedagogies of enactment to learn in and from practice. However, research on these pedagogies is still in its early development. Building on prior analyses, this article elaborates a particular pedagogy of enactment, rehearsal, developed through a collaboration of elementary mathematics TEs across three institutions. Rehearsals are embedded within learning cycles that provide repeated opportunities for novice teachers (NTs) to investigate, reflect on, and enact teaching through coached feedback. This article shares a set of insights gained from 5 years of developing, studying, and learning how to support NTs’ enactment in rehearsal. The insights we share in this article contribute to building a knowledge base for pedagogies of teacher education.
A Review of Research on Prospective Teachers’ Learning About Children’s Mathematical Thinking and Cultural Funds of Knowledge
Researchers have studied the preparation of elementary teachers to teach mathematics to students from diverse racial, ethnic, and linguistic backgrounds by focusing either on teachers’ learning about children’s mathematical thinking (CMT) or, less frequently, about children’s cultural funds of knowledge (CFoK) related to mathematics. Despite this important work, elementary teachers continue to be underprepared to teach mathematics effectively in diverse communities. We suggest that one way to address this persistent challenge is to integrate these two lines of work. This review focuses on research related to how prospective teachers (PSTs) learn to connect to CMT and CFoK in mathematics instruction. We use the review to describe elements of a robust theoretical framework of PST learning about CMT and CFoK, and synthesize how the studies reviewed contribute to these different elements.
Practices of Compassionate, Critical, Justice-Oriented Teacher Education
In this cross-institutional, qualitative case study, two teacher educators in urban teacher education programs identify and analyze the components of our teacher education practice in relation to a vision of compassionate, critical, justice-oriented teacher education. Using Grossman et al.’s concepts of preparation for professional practice as an analytic tool, we illuminate some of our teacher education practices that (a) facilitated the development of relationships and community within our classes, (b) honored preservice teachers’ lived experiences and existing attitudes, (c) introduced preservice teachers to multiple perspectives of viewing the world, and (d) provided a vision of equitable, intellectually challenging teaching and learning. Drawing on our data, we offer a pedagogical framework that identifies key features of compassionate, critical, justice-oriented teacher education to inform research and practice. We highlight the contributions of this framework for justice-oriented teacher education and the inherent complexity of attempts to parse such fundamentally messy relational practice.
Making Invisible Intersectionality Visible Through Theater of the Oppressed in Teacher Education
The arts generally and theater specifically offer effective strategies to help educators recognize and make visible the multiple student and teacher identities within classrooms. Without student and teacher agency in schools, there cannot be equitable and liberatory learning environments. Noted Brazilian theater artist and activist Augusto Boal’s Theater of the Oppressed (TO) offers promising opportunities to embody Crenshaw’s notion of intersectional identities and Purdie-Vaughns and Eibach’s concept of Invisible Intersectionality. This article shares research conducted in a teacher education course on culturally relevant pedagogy where students engaged in TO activities to explore the multiplicity of their and their future students’ identities. The authors suggest that embodied and artistic approaches in preservice teacher education create so-called small openings where students may recognize their and their future students’ identities and move toward including varied identities in their future classroom communities.
Adopting an International Innovation for Teacher Professional Development
The state of Florida has taken an unprecedented approach to teacher professional development in its Race to the Top (RTTT) Program application by proposing to promote an international innovation that originates in Japan, “lesson study,” as a statewide teacher professional development model. Since winning the US$700 million RTTT funding in 2010, the Florida Department of Education and districts have been promoting lesson study as one of the statewide vehicles to implement the state standards aligned with the Common Core State Standards. This study analyzed the state and districts’ approaches to promote lesson study using policy documents, statewide district survey data, and interviews. We found that a majority of districts mandated lesson study implementation without securing or spending sufficient funding. In addition, the existing organizational structures and routines for professional development pose a major challenge in capacity building of district leaders and teachers to engage in lesson study.
Cooperating Teacher Compensation and Benefits
We offer a comparative investigation of the compensation and benefits afforded to cooperating teachers (CTs) by teacher education programs (TEPs) in 1957-1958 and 2012-2013. This investigation replicates and extends a description of the compensation practices of 20 U.S. TEPs published by VanWinkle in 1959. Data for the present investigation came from 18 of those TEPs. Descriptive statistics and qualitative analyses were used to identify trends and make comparisons across the two time periods. Findings indicate that compensation for CTs continues to fall into five categories: (a) monetary compensation, (b) professional learning opportunities, (c) CT role-focused resources, (d) engaging CTs in the college/university community, and (e) professional recognition. Changes in the nature and quality of benefits indicate that in many instances, the programs in our sample offer less to their CTs than they did in 1957-1958 while expectations for CTs have historically increased.
Unstandardized Responses to a “Standardized” Test
We examine edTPA (a teacher performance assessment) implementation at one private university during the first year that our state required this exam for initial teaching certification. Using data from semi-structured interviews with 19 teacher educators from 12 programs as well as public information on edTPA pass rates, we explore whether the edTPA served its intended roles as a gatekeeper to the teaching profession and a catalyst for curriculum change. Although the edTPA did not serve as gatekeeper in our context, we did find a wide variety of consequential program-level gatekeeping practices. To explore the test’s function as a curriculum improvement lever, we created weighted change scores to represent the range of edTPA-related curricular changes across 12 programs. We found a wide range of curricular responses to the edTPA, from marginalization of the assessment to deep edTPA integration in program coursework. Finally, we explore teacher educators’ analyses of the edTPA as an instructional tool.
A Five-Country Survey on Ethics Education in Preservice Teaching Programs
Despite a broad consensus on the ethical dimensions of the teaching profession, and long-standing efforts to align teacher education with wider trends in professional education, little is known about how teacher candidates are being prepared to face the ethical challenges of contemporary teaching. This article presents the results of an international survey on ethics content and curriculum in initial teacher education (ITE). Involving five Organisation for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD) countries—the United States, England, Canada, Australia, and the Netherlands—the study’s findings shed light on teacher educators’ perspectives on the contribution of ethics content to the education of future teachers and provide a snapshot of how well existing programs line up with their aspirations. The results showed that 24% of the ITE programs surveyed contain at least one mandatory stand-alone ethics course. The meaning of the results vis-à-vis opportunities for expanding ethics education in preservice teaching programs is also discussed.
Digital Storytelling as Racial Justice: Digital Hopes for Deconstructing Whiteness in Teacher Education
Teacher education is replete with an overwhelming presence of Whiteness, a presence that if not explicitly interrogated indefinitely recycles hegemonic Whiteness. Needed are pedagogical strategies that expose the hegemonic invisibility of Whiteness. This critical reflection examines the utilization of digital storytelling by teacher educators of color to pedagogically deconstruct Whiteness in a predominately White, urban-focused teacher education course—a necessary deconstruction if these teacher candidates are to effectively teach urban students of color. Particularly, this article deconstructs four academic years of digital stories produced in a mandatory diversity course in an urban teacher education program and illustrates how digital storytelling itself promotes a critical self-revelation that confront Whiteness in White teacher candidates. The preliminary analyses suggest that digital storytelling is a racially just way of having White teacher candidates self-reflect on their own Whiteness in a multitude of ways, by (a) ending emotional distancing, (b) debunking colorblindness, (c) engaging emotions, and (d) sharing the burden of race.
Preservice Teachers’ Professional Knowledge and Its Relation to Academic Self-Concept
We investigated the factorial structure of preservice teachers’ academic self-concept with regard to three domains of professional knowledge (content knowledge [CK], pedagogical content knowledge [PCK], and pedagogical/psychological knowledge [PPK]). We also analyzed the relation between preservice teachers’ academic self-concept and their professional knowledge. The sample consisted of N = 631 German preservice secondary teachers in biology and physics. To analyze the factorial structure of the academic self-concept, we applied confirmatory factor analyses (CFAs) and compared different models of complexity. Results confirmed that preservice teachers’ academic self-concept is empirically separable into CK, PCK, and PPK. Furthermore, the self-concept scales were positively related to the corresponding test scores in the professional knowledge domains. Our results revealed that preservice teachers’ academic self-concept is differentiated at a very early state of teacher education and reflects CK, PCK, and PPK performance. Hence, self-concept measures seem to provide an alternative means to assess preservice teachers’ professional knowledge in comparison with traditional performance measures.
Struggling to Overcome the State’s Prescription for Practice
Issues of standardization, student achievement, and diversity have dramatically altered teaching within early childhood programs across the United States. This has created a situation in which teacher educators need to assist practicing and preservice teachers working in these contexts with formulating instructional responses that address policymakers’ high-stakes demands, take into account the best practices of early childhood, and attend to children’s linguistic, cultural, socioeconomic, and political worlds. This article addresses this issue by examining findings from a qualitative study of a professional development course within a large urban school district for prekindergarten and kindergarten teachers. In the course, the teachers were asked to engage in action research projects that pursued learning experiences with their students reflecting issues central to their lives in and/or outside their classrooms. Analyzing and interpreting their experiences sheds light on how teacher educators can support practicing and preservice teachers in responding to the governmental, institutional, and local demands on their teaching while attempting to formulate learning experiences that reflect their students’ sociocultural worlds.
Provoking Reflective Thinking in Post Observation Conversations
We present a micro-analysis of post observation conversations between classroom teachers and mentors. Using the approach of conversation analysis, we show how the sequential organization of an episode (i.e., who initiates the interaction, question format used by mentors) could potentially serve to provoke or hinder teacher reflection. Our analysis reveals the different stances adopted by mentor and teacher during potentially discomfiting episodes, the relationship between the structure of initial questions, and the impact of question types on elicited teacher responses/reflections. Implications for handling this type of interaction for more effective professional development collaborations are discussed.
Investigating the Knowledge Needed for Teaching Mathematics
Central in the frameworks proposed to capture the knowledge needed for teaching mathematics is the assumption that teachers need more than pure subject-matter knowledge. Validation studies exploring this assumption by recruiting contrasting populations are relatively scarce. Drawing on a sample of 644 Greek-Cypriots preservice and inservice elementary school teachers and university students with strong mathematical background, this study explored participants’ knowledge with respect to four teaching practices: providing and evaluating explanations; selecting and using representations; analyzing student errors, misconceptions, and non-conventional solutions; and selecting tasks. Results emerging from an item response theory (IRT) model and non-parametric tests showed significant differences among these groups, largely in the first two practices. Clinical interviews with a voluntary sub-sample of these participants provided insights into the unexpected findings related to the other two practices. The theoretical, methodological, and practical implications of these findings are discussed, and directions for future studies are offered.
Preparing Teachers for Educational Renewal Within Current Contexts of Accountability
Given changes to the ways teachers and, by association, the universities that prepare them are held accountable, the critical work of John Goodlad in educational renewal through teacher education has restored at least some capacity to reframe conversations about ways to better prepare teachers to serve diverse students in America’s schools. In this article, we examine how Goodlad’s vision, reified through his Twenty Postulates (a) might have helped to reshape teacher education over the past three decades, (b) has been (or might be) affected by current accountability policies, and (c) might be extended or expanded for the next generation of teachers and students. We argue that research is needed within which researchers examine ways to reaffirm teacher education as a top priority, better prepare teachers to serve as stewards of schools, empower teachers as change agents, and create spaces for faculty to engage in research with their school district partners.
Social Justice and Teacher Education: A Systematic Review of Empirical Work in the Field
Teachers play a crucial role in promoting more equitable educational outcomes for marginalized students from low socio-economic backgrounds. Correspondingly, there is a clear warrant for preservice teacher education to work toward the development of teachers who are socially just in their beliefs and practices. This article comprises a systematic review locating empirical research at the intersection of social justice—as it is variously defined within the literature—and teacher education published in peer-reviewed journals within the last 10 years. We explore the focus, design, and findings of the research identified as a basis for recommending future research in the field. By taking stock of the current state of the field and articulating questions that remain under-researched and research approaches under-utilized, we are better placed to move beyond revisiting familiar research terrain.
Engaging and Working in Solidarity With Local Communities in Preparing the Teachers of Their Children
This article analyzes a programmatic effort in teacher education, “The Community Teaching Strand” (CTS), to engage local community members as mentors of teacher candidates (TCs) in two postgraduate teacher preparation programs in a large research university. Three different conceptions of the nature and purpose of teacher–family–community relations frame the analysis: involving families and communities, engaging families and communities, and working in solidarity with families and communities. Three primary research questions are explored in this article: What do TCs learn through their participation in the CTS? To what extent and how do TCs bring community teaching into their classrooms during the program and as first-year teachers? What programmatic features encouraged and/or constrained TC learning from the community mentors? After describing Mountain City’s “Community Teaching Strand,” the article identifies a set of TC learning and practice outcomes as well as a number of tensions that arose in the programs in the attempt to implement engagement and solidarity approaches to working with families and communities. Finally, the implications of this work for teacher education are discussed.
Conceptualizing Teacher Identity as a Complex Dynamic System: The Inner Dynamics of Transformations During a Practicum
Currently, the inner dynamics of teacher identity transformations remain a “black box.” Conceptualizing preservice teacher identity as a complex dynamic system, and the notion of “being someone who teaches” in dialogical terms as involving shifts between different teacher voices, the study investigates the dynamical processes at play when transitions between identities occur. Using a single-case design, and drawing on intra- and inter-personal data collected across three timescales, the identity transformations of a preservice teacher during a practicum are examined as a process in motion. The study offers a systemic account of the participant’s teacher identity experiences, analyses revealing oscillations between two identity positions and a pattern of multi-stability. It is suggested that complexity approaches can be valuably used in mentoring processes to help students make sense of identity transformations and the conditions under which they occur. In the longer term, support of this kind can have a positive impact on teacher retention.
Developing a Deeper Understanding of Community-Based Pedagogies With Teachers
Here we share findings from a 9-month qualitative case study involving a school–university professional development inquiry into how teachers develop, implement, and interpret community-based pedagogies (CBPs), an asset-based approach to curriculum that acknowledges mandated standards but begins with recognizing and valuing local knowledge. After describing the structure and activities of the professional development project, we focus on the work and perspectives of four teachers at one public school in Bogotá. The challenges identified were outweighed by the benefits, including increased student engagement, motivation, family–school involvement, and an appreciation of local knowledge as curriculum resource. In addition to generating rich curriculum exemplars in chemistry, social studies, and language arts, the teachers’ interpretations and enactments of CBPs indicate that CBPs are flexible enough to allow multiple entry points, teacher autonomy, and ownership, and share enough commonalities with other pedagogical approaches to allow different learning trajectories for teachers and students.
Teachers’ Professional Knowledge for Teaching English as a Foreign Language
Despite an increasing research interest in subject-specific teacher knowledge, the scientific understanding regarding teachers’ professional knowledge for teaching English as a foreign language (TEFL) is very limited. This study therefore applies standardized tests to directly assess content knowledge (CK), pedagogical content knowledge (PCK), and general pedagogical knowledge (GPK) of preservice teachers for TEFL in Germany from different programs and stages during initial teacher education (during their master’s studies at university and at the end of their induction phase). Structural analysis provides evidence that teacher knowledge with respect to TEFL is a multidimensional construct and PCK is closely related to both CK and GPK. Test scores vary across preservice teachers from different programs and stages, which adequately reflects differences in the learning opportunities they had during teacher education.
What English/Language Arts Teacher Candidates Learn During Coursework and Practica
This study investigates the learning reported by a set of volunteer participants from three university teacher education programs: from one Southwestern U.S. University, the program in secondary English/Language Arts Education and the program in Elementary Education; and from one Southeastern U.S. University, the program in secondary English/Language Arts Education. Based on interviews conducted between the end of coursework and the beginning of student teaching, this study uses a sociocultural perspective to consider not only the manner in which the teacher candidates’ learning was mediated by a host of factors, including formal teacher education courses and mentor teacher guidance, but also a wide range of factors that introduced competing conceptions of effective teaching. The interviews were analyzed collaboratively by the two authors, who relied on a sociocultural analysis attending to the pedagogical tools, attribution of learning to specific sources and the settings in which they were located, the areas of teaching in which the tools were applicable, and goals toward which the pedagogical tools were deployed. Findings suggest that even with the three programs having radically different structures and processes, the teacher candidates reported very similar learning, yet with variations conceivably following from their program structures. Furthermore, teacher education emerged as one of several sites of learning named by teacher candidates, rather than serving as their sole or even primary source of learning. The study concludes with a consideration of the many factors that contribute to teacher candidates’ conceptual understanding of effective teaching and the role of teacher education programs within this vast complex of goals, epistemologies, and practices.
Roles of Urban Indigenous Community Members in Collaborative Field-Based Teacher Preparation
This qualitative case study explored a community–university partnership for teacher preparation with an urban Indigenous community organization. The study examined the roles of Indigenous community partners as co-teacher educators working to better prepare teachers for the needs of urban Indigenous children and communities. The author collected data through focus groups with Indigenous participants before and after engagement with the partnership, direct observations of partnership activities where Indigenous participants interacted with teacher candidates and university faculty, and offered individual interviews for all participants. Indigenous Postcolonial Theory (IPT) guided this research and offered a lens to examine the perspectives of urban Indigenous community members engaged as co-teacher educators in field-based teacher preparation. This study held implications for continued development of Indigenous community–university partnerships and furthering the role of community leaders in teacher preparation to advance efforts of Indigenous postcolonialism through self-education.
Candidates Use a New Teacher Development Process, Transformative Reflection, to Identify and Address Teaching and Learning Problems in Their Work With Children
This article has two aims: (a) to offer a new model for a teacher preparation course that features reflection and teaching as integral, inseparable actions and (b) to provide empirical evidence from an exploratory ethnography to demonstrate teacher development possibilities with this model. The model, termed Transformative Reflection, was founded on principles from cultural-historical activity theory (CHAT) and empirical work on reflection. This study examines two CHAT-based mediation practices that became a focus of 12 childhood education masters students inquiry during reflection sessions: (a) posture as a tool for working with students and (b) open questions as a tool to re/orient learners. Based on analysis of observations, interviews, journals, and video, we found candidates took action individually and collectively to interrogate and, in many cases, change how they planned learning activities, how they re/oriented learners to the learning object, and how they viewed students as agents.
Language Proficiency in an Era of Accountability: Using the Target Language to Learn How to Teach
This article presents a qualitative study of integrating target language (TL) materials and activities within a world language (WL) teacher preparation program at a large, Midwestern public university. Based on document and interview data, I analyze how teacher candidates engaged with curricular materials written in the respective TL, how they interacted with their peers in the TL about those materials, and how they described the effect of both on their learning. As the analysis demonstrates, candidates reported that these experiences integrating language and language-teacher learning helped them extend their TL proficiency into pedagogical and professional domains. Moreover, they reported that this work helped them more fully understand the complexities of teaching.
Confronting the Urban Civic Opportunity Gap: Integrating Youth Participatory Action Research Into Teacher Education
This article considers how youth participatory action research (YPAR) can be used to build the civic teaching capacities of preservice teachers working in urban settings. In the final semester of an urban-focused teacher education program, preservice teachers led YPAR programs in the urban schools in which they student-taught the previous semester. This article analyzes what preservice teachers learn through the process of YPAR. Specifically, we found that YPAR supported teacher learning in three areas: cultivating student-centered teaching practices, observing and documenting students’ strengths and capacities, and developing new understandings of the structural inequalities that shaped the lives of the students in urban schools. Drawing on data collected over the past 6 years, we argue that leading children and young people in participatory action research projects can contribute to the creation of the transformative civic educators so sorely needed in urban settings.
Enduring in an “Impossible” Occupation: Perfectionism and Commitment to Teaching
Very little is known about the role of person-level qualities, or personality, in the teacher labor market. This study explores the role of perfectionism in teacher occupational commitment and retention. One hundred eighteen graduates of a competitive teacher preparation program with widely varying levels of total years commitment to the job completed a measure of three dimensions of perfectionism—standards (holding oneself to high standards), order (valuing neatness, tidiness, and being disciplined), and discrepancy (perceiving a gap between ambitions and abilities)—and gave information about their personal backgrounds and work histories. Results suggest that none of the dimensions of perfectionism predict teacher commitment in the sample as a whole, but that the order dimension significantly predicts long-term commitment to struggling urban versus affluent suburban schools. These results imply that long-term urban teachers may be adept at overlooking difficult and sometimes chaotic circumstances to sustain themselves in the occupation.
Facilitating Teacher Learning When Using Different Representations of Practice
Providing opportunities for learning through professional development requires the examination of facilitation of sessions with teachers. This study investigates facilitation of professional development to promote teacher learning when using animations and videos in a study group with five teachers. We ask: What practices (and moves within those practices) do the facilitators enact during high-quality conversations and specific to the professional development activities? We found that moves for sustaining an inquiry stance were more frequently performed than other moves, suggesting that the facilitator’s practices increase teachers’ learning opportunities when studying representations of teaching. In addition, the study suggests that there are no significant differences when facilitating discussions of animations and videos. The teacher learning goals seem to be more important than the type of representations of teaching used for the enactment of facilitation moves. Our findings are relevant for designing and implementing professional development that supports teacher learning through inquiry and collaboration.
Preservice Teachers’ Learning to Generate Evidence-Based Hypotheses About the Impact of Mathematics Teaching on Learning
This study examines the development of a specific sub-skill for studying and improving teaching—the generation of hypotheses about the effects of teaching on student learning. Two groups of elementary preservice teachers (PSTs) were compared: one group that attended a typical mathematics-methods course and one that attended a course integrating analysis skills for learning from teaching. Data consist of PSTs’ comments on video clips of mathematics instruction administered before and after course completion. Findings reveal that PSTs at the beginning of the program struggled to generate hypotheses with relevant evidence, often equating teacher behavior or student correct answers as evidence of student understanding. After course participation, PSTs who attended the course with integrated analysis skills significantly improved in their ability to generate hypotheses based on student evidence whereas their counterparts continued to display difficulties. Implications for teacher education and future research are considered.
An Analysis of Evaluative Comments in Teachers’ Online Discussions of Representations of Practice
It has been common to use video records of instruction in teacher professional development, but participants have rarely been encouraged to evaluate teachers and students’ actions in those records, allegedly because evaluation deters from the development of a professional discourse. In this study, we inspected teachers’ online discussions of animations of classroom episodes realized with cartoon characters, looking at the difference in the content of conversation turns when members made evaluative comments and when they did not make evaluative comments. We were interested in finding out whether making evaluative comments correlated with participants’ reflection on their professional practice and proposal of alternative teaching actions; for that purpose we used systemic functional linguistics (SFL) to develop a coding scheme that attended to evaluation, alternatives, and reflection in forum discussions. We found statistically significant evidence that the more the participants actively evaluated the teaching in the animations, the more they proposed alternative teaching actions and reflected on instructional practice. We relate these findings to the notion of social presence in online discussions.
Distinguishing Models of Professional Development
We posit that professional development (PD) models fall on a continuum from highly adaptive to highly specified, and that these constructs provide a productive way to characterize and distinguish among models. The study reported here examines the impact of an adaptive mathematics PD model on teachers’ knowledge and instructional practices as well as on students’ achievement over time. Results indicate at least modest impacts in each of these areas. Our findings demonstrate that adaptive models of PD can be subjected to investigations of impact based on quantitative research methodologies; moreover, we argue that utilizing a wider variety of methodologies to study adaptive models is increasingly needed as these models gain in popularity and usage.
Keeping an Eye on Learning: Differences Between Expert and Novice Teachers’ Representations of Classroom Management Events
Classroom management represents an important skill and knowledge set for achieving student learning gains, but poses a considerable challenge for beginning teachers. Understanding how teachers’ cognition and conceptualizations differ between experts and novices is useful for enhancing beginning teachers’ expertise development. We created a coding scheme using grounded theory to analyze expert and novice teachers’ verbalizations describing classroom events and their relevance for classroom management. Four categories of codes emerged. These referred to perceptions/interpretations, thematic focus, temporality, and cognitive processing expressed. Mixed-method analysis of teachers’ verbalizations yielded a number of significant effects related to participants’ expertise levels. Notably, teachers’ cognitive processing diverged significantly based on expertise level. Differences in focus included themes such as student learning, student discipline, and teacher interaction and influence. Experts focused on learning in the classroom and the teacher’s ability to influence learning, whereas novices were more concerned with maintaining discipline and behavioral norms.
Intelligent Dispositions: Dewey, Habits and Inquiry in Teacher Education
Despite much debate in the literature, accrediting agencies continue to require that teacher education programs demonstrate that candidates possess requisite sets of dispositions deemed necessary for licensure. At least three unresolved and important questions remain unanswered that directly affect programs’ abilities to do so: Are dispositions immutable aspects of character or are they learned through experience and as such, are they subject to revision through education? How does the larger context of a program affect the development of dispositions? What is the link between observable actions and dispositions? While seemingly disparate questions, this article argues that John Dewey’s discussion of habits offers a theoretical framework that points to answers that respond to mandates and also open avenues for complex educational engagement. To make the case, the article presents a theoretical response to questions about dispositions grounded in Dewey’s conception of habits and then uses that conception to address each of the three proceeding questions in turn. The article’s central argument is that teacher educators should conceptualize dispositions as being comprised of clusters of habits. Habits describe our predispositions to draw upon modes of response to situations and problems that arise within specific contexts. Furthermore, the article concludes that regardless of the type of disposition involved, teacher education programs must create contexts that encourage the development of intelligent habits to inform intelligent dispositions.
Democratizing Teacher Education
In this article, the authors argue that teacher education needs to make a fundamental shift in whose knowledge and expertise counts in the education of new teachers. Using tools afforded by cultural historical activity theory (CHAT) and deliberative democracy theory, they argue that by recasting who is considered an expert, and rethinking how teacher candidates and university faculty cross institutional boundaries to collaborate with communities and schools, teacher education programs can better interrogate their challenges and invent new solutions to prepare the teachers our students need. Drawing on examples from joint-work among universities, schools, and communities in a variety of teacher education programs, they highlight the possibilities and complexities in pursuing more democratic work in teacher education.
Studying Teachers’ Sensemaking to Investigate Teachers’ Responses to Professional Development Focused on New Standards
Recent research on teacher professional development (PD) underscores the importance of the coherence of PD with standards, curriculum, and assessment. Teachers’ judgments of the coherence of PD with larger system goals influence their decisions about what ideas and resources they appropriate from PD. Little research, however, has examined how teachers formulate these judgments and why teachers’ judgments vary within the same system and for the same reform. In this article, we use organizational theory’s concept of sensemaking to examine teachers’ responses to PD related to the Next Generation Science Standards within two schools in the United States. Our study shows that teachers’ perceptions of coherence emerge from interactions within PD, associated curriculum materials, and with colleagues and leaders in their schools. Some teachers, we found, were able to manage ambiguity, uncertainty, and perceived incoherence productively, while others foreclosed deep and sustained sensemaking. Our findings suggest the need for PD to engage teachers in sustained sensemaking activity around issues of perceived incoherence to bolster teachers’ emergent understandings of standards and improve the likelihood of implementing instructional practices aligned to standards.
“You Are Learning Well My Dear”: Shifts in Novice Teachers’ Talk About Teaching During Their Internship
Against the backdrop of mentor teachers’ reasoning about practice, we seek to understand shifts in intern teachers’ reasoning about practice during a year in which they take their final methods course in the fall and then do intern teaching in the spring. The data we analyze consist of intern and mentor teacher study group discussions of repeated viewings of an animation representing mathematics classroom practice around the solving of linear equations. Our analysis utilizes Toulmin’s framework of argumentation and the construct of professional obligations from the practical rationality of mathematics teaching. The analysis suggests that, in reasoning about practice, in the fall, intern teachers emphasized teachers’ obligations to mathematics as a discipline and to students as individuals, but as they moved into teaching, their arguments about practice include greater attention to obligations to the institutional goals of schools and to their class as a whole.
A Comparative Examination of Student Teacher and Intern Perceptions of Teaching Ability at the Preservice and Inservice Stages
This study investigates how the culminating teacher preparation program (TPP) experience (either student teaching assignment or internship) influences the perceptions teachers report about their ability to perform instructional tasks required of teachers. A multivariate ANOVA test (N = 502) was conducted to compare perceptions of student teachers (those who taught 15 weeks) and interns (those who taught a full academic year) at two points in time—once at the conclusion of their TPP and again after their first year of teaching. Results indicate that overall, student teachers report higher perceptions of their ability to perform instructional tasks than interns do at both the preservice and inservice teacher stages. Interns reported higher scores at the inservice stage on only the mathematics subscale, suggesting that there is some change in self-efficacy as teachers gain teaching experience. Findings suggest that the student teaching context provides more modeling and verbal support and produces teachers with higher perceptions of teaching ability than those who complete an internship.
The Need for Instructional Sensitivity and Construct Clarity in PACT
This commentary on the article titled “Examining the Internal Structure Evidence for the Performance Assessment for California Teachers: A Validation Study of the Elementary Literacy Teaching Event for Tier 1 Teacher Licensure” provides an overview of Performance Assessment for California Teachers (PACT), its relationship to edTPA and the construct (domains) measured, a summary of the major findings of the article commented on, a discussion of PACT validity issues and rubrics, and the need for instructionally sensitive and formative assessments. It concludes with recommendations to the State of California that include attention to construct validity, improved rubrics, formative use of the data, and attention to utility as well as validity and reliability.
An Exploratory Study of the Influence That Analyzing Teaching Has on Preservice Teachers’ Classroom Practice
We designed a video-based course to develop preservice teachers’ vision of ambitious instruction by decomposing instruction to learn to attend to student thinking and to examine how particular teaching moves influence student learning. In this study, we examine the influence that learning to systematically analyze ambitious pedagogy in the course has on preservice teachers’ classroom practice. Analysis of preservice teachers’ videos from the Performance Assessment for California Teachers Teaching Event reveals that they engaged in more student-centered practices compared with a cohort of candidates who did not participate in the course-creating opportunities to see student thinking, noticing student thinking during instruction, and pursuing student ideas to learn more about their thinking. We also found that their probing of student thinking focused primarily on correct answers and procedural fluency. These findings have implications for defining a pedagogy of teacher preparation to develop beginning teacher competency.
Core Pedagogy: Individual Uncertainty, Shared Practice, Formative Ethos
Attention to the core practices of teaching necessitates core pedagogies in teacher preparation. This article outlines the diffusion of one such pedagogy from medical to teacher education. The concept of clinical simulations is outlined through the lens of “signature pedagogies” and their uncertain, engaging, formative qualities. Implemented in five different teacher preparation programs, simulation data highlight design principles and resulting outcomes for general scholastic and subject-specific problems of practice.
Teachers’ Uses of a Learning Trajectory in Student-Centered Instructional Practices
The growing national attention to students’ learning trajectories (LTs) renews the opportunity to explore the ways that teachers may use students’ thinking in their instruction. In this article, we examine teachers’ learning of two frameworks, one for students’ thinking in a particular domain and one for broad student-centered instructional practices, in the context of an elementary grades mathematics professional development setting. As a part of a retrospective analysis of a design experiment, we analyzed 19 lessons of teachers who participated in 60 hr of professional development designed to support their learning of one LT and one framework about student-centered instructional practices. Our findings describe the ways in which teachers brought together these frameworks to enact instructional practices that elicit and use students’ mathematical thinking in classroom instruction. We conclude by arguing that LTs can serve as a referent for student-centered instructional practices, bridging guidelines for student-centered instruction with domain-specific understandings of students’ thinking for teachers.
A Discourse Analytic Approach to Video Analysis of Teaching
The authors present findings from a qualitative study of an experience that supports teacher candidates to use discourse analysis and positioning theory to analyze videos of their practice during student teaching. The research relies on the theoretical concept that learning to teach is an identity process. In particular, teachers construct and enact their identities during moment-to-moment interactions with students, colleagues, and parents. Using case study methods for data generation and analysis, the authors demonstrate how one participant used the analytic tools to trace whether and how she enacted her preferred teacher identities (facilitator and advocate) during student teaching. Implications suggest that using discourse analytic frameworks to analyze videos of instruction is a generative strategy for developing candidates’ interactional awareness that impacts student learning and the nature of classroom talk. Overall, these tools support novice teachers with the difficult task of becoming the teacher they desire to be.
What Is Reflection? Looking for Clarity in an Ambiguous Notion
The notion of reflection nowadays is considered crucial in the field of teaching and teacher education. However, although the great majority of approaches to reflection are grounded on the same main theoretical sources, the meaning of this notion is unanimously recognized in the field to be ambiguous. This article aims to look for clarity about what reflection is, what it is not, and how it works, by closely revisiting the seminal works of Dewey, Schön, and Wertheimer. It is argued that reflection is a descriptive notion—not a prescriptive one—and that it refers to the thinking process engaged in giving coherence to an initially unclear situation. The article then identifies some aspects of how reflection works, and some current widespread assumptions about reflection, which are insufficiently warranted, either theoretically in the writings of Dewey or Schön or empirically in the observations of reflection processes.
Composing With New Technology: Teacher Reflections on Learning Digital Video
This study explores teachers’ reflections on their learning to compose with new technologies in the context of teacher education and/or teacher professional development. English language arts (ELA) teachers (n = 240) in 15 courses learned to use digital video (DV), completed at least one DV group project, and responded to open-ended survey questions. The data examined connections they made between print and DV composing, the best and most frustrating aspects of DV, content they still wanted to learn, and its relevance in their classrooms. The findings demonstrate high engagement with DV, the use of transmediation in making connections between print and DV, the reporting of both enjoyment and frustration with DV, and perceived curricular value with DV in the classroom. Implications include the need for teachers to have practical experiences with DV and opportunities to reflect on content and pedagogical applications.
Field Placement Schools and Instructional Effectiveness
Student teaching has long been considered a cornerstone of teacher preparation. One dimension thought to affect student teacher learning is the kinds of schools in which these experiences occur. Drawing on extensive survey and administrative data on all teachers, students, and schools in a large, urban district, this study investigates whether certain kinds of field placement schools predict later teacher performance. It finds that teachers who learned to teach in field placements with stronger teacher collaboration, achievement gains, and, to a lesser degree, teacher retention were subsequently more effective at raising student achievement. However, these kinds of schools were less likely to be used as field placements. Results suggest that better functioning school organizations with positive work environments make desirable settings for teacher learning and that preparation programs, and the districts they supply, would benefit from more strategically using these kinds of schools to prepare future teachers.
Teaching as Assemblage
Recent accountability policies seek to “grade” teacher preparation programs by the teaching evaluations of their graduates. This article addresses the problematic nature of the linear thinking underlying such reforms by examining the construction of teaching practices of Mauro, a first-year secondary science teacher who taught environmental and earth sciences. Drawn from a larger data set, the study uses concepts from rhizomatics, a non-linear theory of thought and social activity, and elements of postmodern grounded theory. Despite holding key factors constant across the two subject area settings, differences in the ways the teacher, students, and contextual conditions worked together helped produce strikingly different teaching practices in each set of classes. This study provides evidence that enacting pre-professional learning is a complex undertaking shaped by the ways the elements present in the school setting work together, and, thus, teaching is a collectively negotiated activity. The author offers implications for teacher preparation practice and policy, advocating for an ontological turn in teacher education research that focuses on processes of teaching rather than outcomes alone.
Unraveling the Complexity of Student Teachers’ Learning in and From the Workplace
This study reports on how student teachers’ workplace experiences were transformed into learning experiences. In total, 26 stories from 10 student teachers were collected by means of digital logs and in-depth interviews and unraveled using a new technique of reconstructing stories into webs. In these webs, the factors that played a role in student teachers’ learning processes, the relationships between these factors, and the chains of student teachers’ activities and experiences in their learning processes were visualized. The results show that student teachers’ learning from experiences is a process involving many interrelated personal and social aspects, including past and present experiences gained in multiple situations and contexts over time. Four chains of activities and experiences could be distinguished in their learning processes. The findings indicate that reconstructing stories into webs is a promising technique for unraveling the complexity of learning from workplace experiences.
From Experience to Expertise: The Development of Teachers’ Learning in Lesson Study
This article presents a case study of how educators in one northeastern school district participated in school-based learning through lesson study (LS). Using a sociocultural perspective on teachers’ learning, I compared the participation of educators who were new to lesson study (“LS novices”) with those who had more experience with the practice (“LS experienced practitioners”). Consistent with prior research, I discovered that LS novices focused primarily on learning the routine and on the novelty of observing instruction. LS experienced practitioners, in contrast, were comfortable with the routine and thus concentrated instead on how they elicited students’ thinking. I discuss how educators might progress from having a less developed to a more developed understanding of lesson study, and how supports such as routine participation and interactions with knowledgeable experts might help educators develop their understanding and application of lesson study over time.
Problems Without Ceilings: How Mentors and Novices Frame and Work on Problems-of-Practice
Support for new forms of teaching expertise with rigorous and equitable outcomes for student learning is a particular challenge when communities of actors working together do not share a similar language or vision of teaching practice. For this project, we coordinated activities in and outside of secondary science classrooms for cooperating teachers (CTs) and their preservice teachers (PSTs) to inquire into a set of research-based teaching practices and tools. Using frame analysis, we contrast three problems-of-practice addressed by 23 dyads: problems of developing novice teachers, problems of improving teaching, and problems of improving student learning. The last frame, improving student learning, required actors to share and co-create knowledge with members outside of their dyads. To do this, groups of dyads formed new or repurposed existing social networks to share tools and work on problems “without ceilings,” meaning those that fueled ongoing lines of inquiry. We describe ways in which knowledge became shared, actors assumed new roles, and new types of tools, activities, and forms of discourse emerged for contextualizing collective work. This study suggests a need for a systems-level approach to teacher education that focuses on institutional networks of shared tools, practices, and deliberate socioprofessional routines for improving practice.
Teaching, Learning, and Leading: Preparing Teachers as Educational Policy Actors
Within the current federal, state, and local contexts of educational reform, teachers must be recognized as central actors in policy work, but rarely do we explicitly consider preparing teachers to become policy actors. Understanding these implications for teacher education, we investigate teacher candidates’ learning of the complexity and dynamism of educational policy through a field-based teacher preparation program. Situated across four unique school contexts in the diverse neighborhoods of Chicago, Illinois, we qualitatively study the cases of eight teacher candidates as they explore policy in practice. We found that candidates developed enduring understandings about policy as complex, situated, and multilayered, as well as the central role of the teacher. This learning was mediated by multiple facets of the field-based module, including readings, panels, and observations. Implications center on the use of field-based teacher education to support policy-related learning and development.
Teacher Preparation for Profit or Prestige: Analysis of a Diverse Market for Teacher Preparation
With increasing awareness of the importance of teacher quality for student learning, education policy leaders have turned their attention to the nation’s teacher training programs as a potential target for reform. One proposed strategy is to increase competition for university-based programs by encouraging new program types. This study examines the relative effectiveness of universities and new program types using the diverse market in Texas. We examine program effectiveness through a framework integrating certificate pathways, organizational goals, and market incentives. We find that independent nonprofits have positive effects on student performance in math that are not explained by teacher sorting or program selectivity. Effects of program types vary across student and school demographics, and some types are particularly effective with high-risk populations. However, some program types are not available to all schools, and thus small differences between program types do not justify focusing reforms on any one type of program.
Embedding Language Support in Developmental Mathematics Lessons
Three community college faculty members used improvement science techniques to design, develop, and refine contextualized developmental mathematics lessons, where language and literacy pedagogy and related supports figured prominently in these instructional materials. This article reports on the role that their design experiences played in professional learning. The article uses a model of professional learning developed by Clarke and Hollingsworth (2002) as the lens to describe and analyze their experiences. Results indicated theoretically noteworthy variation among the faculty. The results highlight a strong connection between faculty willingness to experiment, during trial enactment of these lessons, in their classrooms and faculty growth in knowledge and belief structures about the importance of language and literacy to mathematics teaching and learning. Implications for design-based development, as an important ongoing professional development activity for mathematics instructors, are discussed.
Designing for Improvement in Professional Development for Community College Developmental Mathematics Faculty
More than 60% of the nation’s 14 million community college students are required to complete at least one developmental mathematics class before enrolling in college-credit courses; however, 80% of them do not successfully complete any college-level mathematics course within 3 years. To address this problem, the Community College Pathways initiative was launched in 2009. A core element is the Pathways Faculty Support Program, professional development aimed at supporting faculty to develop knowledge, beliefs, skills, and practices for teaching Pathways courses. In fall 2014, a redesign of the program used improvement science methods to design an infrastructure for responsive, flexible professional development that is sensitive to varying and changing conditions, with mechanisms for identifying, designing, and testing ideas for improvement. Specifically, our team employed a user-centered design process that foregrounds the needs and work processes of Pathways faculty and a measurement system that drives the continuous improvement of the program.
Generating a Networked Improvement Community to Improve Secondary Mathematics Teacher Preparation
The Mathematics Teacher Education Partnership (MTE-Partnership) was formed to address the undersupply of new secondary mathematics teachers who are well prepared to help their students attain the goals of the Common Core State Standards and other college- and career-ready standards. This national consortium of more than 90 universities and 100 school systems has been organized as a Networked Improvement Community (NIC), which combines the disciplined inquiry of improvement science with the power of networking to accelerate improvement by engaging a broad set of participants. Initiating a NIC involves a number of challenges described in the NIC Initiation Framework. This case study analyzes the MTE-Partnership’s progress in one domain of that framework: network leadership, organization, and operation. Areas of discussion include convening the network, establishing a membership framework and participation structures, building leadership and hub functions, developing a communications infrastructure, and finding necessary resources.
Using Improvement Science to Better Support Beginning Teachers
The rapid turnover of novice teachers is a stubborn challenge plaguing schools across the country. The field has come to some consensus about key elements of effective novice teacher support that have potential to ameliorate this problem, although this knowledge has been applied in an inconsistent fashion. Beginning teacher support is a complex issue that functions on many levels: It impacts teachers, school administrators, districts, and the educational system and labor market more broadly. This article analyzes a collaborative effort to tackle this problem: the Building a Teaching Effectiveness Network (BTEN). We use a qualitative case study approach to analyze how BTEN schools supported new teacher development using a standard feedback process and improvement science methods. This analysis offers evidence that these methods enabled participants to learn about their schools while enacting and enhancing the teacher support process, and to reckon with persistent norms that can be obstacles to creating improvement in schools.
The Effects of Teacher Entry Portals on Student Achievement
The current teacher workforce is younger, less experienced, more likely to turnover, and more diverse in preparation experiences than the workforce of two decades ago. Research shows that inexperienced teachers are less effective, but we know little about the effectiveness of teachers with different types of preparation. In this study, we classify North Carolina public school teachers into portals—fixed and mutually exclusive categories that capture teachers’ formal preparation and qualifications upon first entering the profession—and estimate the adjusted average test score gains of students taught by teachers from each portal. Compared with undergraduate-prepared teachers from in-state public universities, (a) out-of-state undergraduate-prepared teachers are less effective in elementary grades and high school, (b) alternative entry teachers are less effective in high school, and (c) Teach For America corps members are more effective in STEM subjects and secondary grades.
The Politics and Statistics of Value-Added Modeling for Accountability of Teacher Preparation Programs
Despite questions about validity and reliability, the use of value-added estimation methods has moved beyond academic research into state accountability systems for teachers, schools, and teacher preparation programs (TPPs). Prior studies of value-added measurement for TPPs test the validity of researcher-designed models and find that measuring differences across programs is difficult. This study is the first to examine the reliability and usefulness of a value-added model for TPPs developed through a collaborative stakeholder process and mandated by state law for use in accountability. Based on the experience of developing a test-based metric for Texas TPPs, our results suggest that although value-added results are statistically robust, accountability status for individual programs is very sensitive to decisions about accountability criteria, the selection of teachers, and the selection of control variables.
Seeking New Perspectives on the Development of Teacher Education
Studies show that changes in teacher education around the world occur slowly and are difficult to implement. This study aims to contribute to the discussion on the major resources for and obstacles to developing teacher education and finding novel solutions to overcome the obstacles. Resources and obstacles were investigated in the context of academic and university-based teacher education in Finland. Findings revealed three major challenges: (a) obstacles in renegotiating professional identity, (b) internal competition between subject-matter groups within the department, and (c) discrepancies between individual agency and organizational development. Based on the findings, this study argues that teacher educators’ individual and collective agency must be supported to enhance their continuous professional learning and organizational change. This goal can be achieved by developing teacher education concurrently at multiple levels, including the individual, work community, and organizational levels. In addition, there is a need to construct multiple couplings between these levels.
Disclosure of Information About English Proficiency
The purpose of this analog study was to determine if increased access to information about a hypothetical English Language Learner (ELL) students’ language proficiency increased preservice teachers’ recognition that limited English proficiency is the likely cause of student difficulties. We find that the provision of increasing levels of information about the student’s English proficiency was associated with preservice teachers’ recognition that limited English proficiency was the likely cause of the student’s classroom difficulties. We also find no differences between groups based on preservice teachers’ education major. This study has implications for avoiding inappropriate referrals for special education evaluation and appropriately meeting ELL students’ instructional needs.
Shaky Methods, Shaky Motives
The National Council on Teacher Quality’s (NCTQ) recent review of university-based teacher preparation programs concluded the vast majority of such programs were inadequately preparing the nation’s teachers. The study, however, has a number of serious flaws that include narrow focus on inputs, lack of a strong research base, missing standards, omitted research, incorrect application of research findings, poor methodology, exclusion of alternative certification programs, failure to conduct member checks, and failure to use existing evidence to validate the report’s rankings. All of these issues render the NCTQ report less than useful in efforts to understand and improve teacher preparation programs in the United States. The article also suggests alternative pathways NCTQ could have undertaken to work with programs to actually improve teacher preparation. The article concludes by noting that the shaky methods used by NCTQ suggest shaky motives such that the true motives of NCTQ for producing the report must be questioned.
Formal and Informal Mentoring
Informal mentors likely play a substantial role in novice teacher learning, yet we know little about them, especially in relation to formal mentoring, which is the cornerstone to most induction programs. This study analyzes survey and interview data from 57 first-year mathematics teachers from 11 districts to investigate differences in the characteristics of formal and informal mentoring that can inform improvements in mentoring policy. Our findings suggest that informal and formal mentors sometimes serve similar functions but often provide compensatory and complementary support. Based on these findings, we identify a set of policy recommendations to improve new teacher supports.
Facilitation and Teacher Behaviors
This study explored how peer and professor facilitations are related to teachers’ behaviors during video-case discussions. Fourteen inservice teachers produced 1,787 turns of conversation during 12 video-case discussions that were video-recorded, transcribed, coded, and analyzed with statistical discourse analysis. Professor facilitations (sharing experiences; affirming ideas; and asking for critical thinking, information, observations, and connections) and peer facilitations (recall, critical thinking, connections, and affirmations) in recent conversation turns were linked to teachers’ current turn behaviors, including recalling information, critical thinking, and making connections to content in video cases. These results suggest that modeling, scaffolding, and co-construction among professors and peers support specific teacher behaviors during video-case discussions.
Unpacking the “Urban” in Urban Teacher Education: Making a Case for Context-Specific Preparation
The literature on preparing teachers for urban schools provides a rationale for helping candidates understand the particular cultures of students. However, research has not sufficiently “unpacked” features of the setting that programs can address; nor has it discussed how programs tailor teaching approaches to their specific contexts. Drawing from program descriptions, syllabi, and interviews, we describe the “context-specific” approach of the University of Chicago Urban Teacher Education Program that prepares teachers for Chicago Public Schools and ways that it helps candidates make meaning of that setting. We present a framework to show how the program defines and then teaches as content essential knowledge about a district and its children—including community and neighborhood histories, district curricula, and policies—that must inform teaching and learning. We include examples of context-specific teacher preparation that illustrate how candidates learn about particularities of Chicago Public Schools and apply this knowledge to develop context-specific understandings and practices.
A Comparison of Preservice Teachers’ Responses to Cyber Versus Traditional Bullying Scenarios
Prior studies indicate that teachers differ in how they respond to different kinds of traditional bullying, and that their beliefs predict their intervention intentions. The current study provided the first extension of this work into the realm of cyber bullying. Preservice teachers in the United Kingdom (N = 222) were presented with vignettes describing three subtypes of traditional bullying as well as cyber bullying, and the latter was directly compared with the former. Dependent variables were perceived seriousness, ability to cope, empathy, and intentions to intervene. Results showed that responses to cyber bullying were most similar to verbal traditional bullying, but distinct from physical and relational traditional bullying. For cyber bullying, willingness to intervene was significantly predicted from the other three dependent variables (collectively and each one uniquely). No gender differences were observed. The implications of the results concerning how teacher educators could help teachers to deal with cyber bullying were discussed.
An Examination of Preservice Teachers’ Intentions to Pursue Careers in Special Education
An understanding of one’s intention to pursue a career related to special education is crucial yet there is limited research in this area. This study examined factors that influence teacher candidates’ intention to pursue a career in special education by surveying 214 preservice teachers. Data were analyzed using path analysis to capture the complex relationships. Results revealed that interest/commitment and outcome expectations of the special education careers were the two most important predictors of preservice teachers’ intention to work in special education–related careers. Special education teaching efficacy only has an indirect effect on their special education career intention via two mediator variables (i.e., special education outcome expectations and career interest/commitment to children with special needs). Preservice teachers’ personal and work experiences with individuals requiring special services directly influence their interest and commitment to serving individuals with special needs, and thus indirectly impact their intention to pursue a special education career.
Toward Reconstructing the Narrative of Teacher Education
Drawing on insights from literary critic and theorist Kenneth Burke, this rhetorical analysis of Preparing Teachers (2010), a publication of the National Research Council, reveals then critiques’ key assumptions that are shaping policies and current reform efforts in teacher education, including changes in U.S. teacher accreditation. Connections are made between these assumptions and the development and influence of scientism in teacher education, and elements of an alternative future are explored.
The Practical Turn in Teacher Education
Amid calls for more practice-based teacher education, this article presents a concrete illustration of a practice-based bridging strategy for preparing high school biology teachers to enact open-inquiry labs. Open-inquiry labs were considered a core practice frame that served as a context for identifying core practices and for giving coherence to separate components of the approach to labs. A bridging model was developed in which the teaching practices, understandings, and intentions of 31 biology student teachers were elicited with respect to their current lab segments, and these were compared with the concrete segments of the core practice frame. From this analysis, a progression was developed to support prospective teachers in moving from existing conceptions of appropriate practice to a realization of the new practice frame as a better way to achieve valued goals.
The Affordances of Blogging As a Practice to Support Ninth-Grade Science Teachers’ Identity Development as Leaders
Increasingly, teacher leadership is being recognized as an essential ingredient in education reforms; however, few teachers consider themselves leaders. Becoming a leader is not just acquiring knowledge and skills for leadership, but developing a new professional identity. As teachers become leaders, however, this identity might put them at risk with dominant school culture where norms of egalitarianism, isolation, and seniority persist. Luehmann emphasizes the value in offering safe spaces in which teachers can take risks as they “try on” new identities. We utilized an online environment to support ninth-grade science teachers in the development of common perspectives, commitments, and visions for teacher leadership as they implemented a new freshman physics curriculum. Our findings illustrate the potential benefits of blogging in terms of providing identity resources and opportunities for identity work. Specifically, by participating in pedagogical transactions, social interactions, and intellectual deliberations via blogs, teachers were supported in their efforts to be leaders in their classrooms, schools, and districts.
Tracing a Beginning Elementary Teacher’s Development of Identity for Science Teaching
The purpose of this case study was to examine a beginning elementary teacher’s development of identity for science teaching from her first year at university, her field experience, and through her first year of teaching. Several kinds of data were collected over a period of 5 years through different sources: interviews, journal entries, drawing assignments, biographical assignments, lesson plans, and classroom observations. Grounded within a combined theoretical framework of identity and narrative, these data were analyzed by means of open coding techniques. The findings of the data analysis are presented under the following four main themes—(a) discourse identity: embracing and enacting scientific inquiry; (b) affinity identity: the impact of relationships and science learning experiences; (c) nature identity: women in science; and (d) institution identity: the role of the context. The findings are summarized in three main assertions, which are discussed alongside a set of implications for research and teacher preparation.
Visual Images as Tools of Teacher Inquiry
As aspiring professionals, pre-service teachers must become good consumers of educational research as well as competent researchers who can use tools of inquiry to improve their practice and conduct their own educational research. Many, however, resist learning research skills or find difficulties in doing so. This article presents ways in which learning in a graduate research class was prompted by methods of multimodal analysis and composition. The graduate-level teacher candidates in the class were taught, in particular, to use visual images as analytical and generative tools, and in doing so, they came to learn about the research process and their role as researchers. Moreover, working with visual images allowed the pre-service teachers increasing clarity in observations and interpretations of what they were seeing in classrooms where they were observing. By using visual images, teacher candidates seemed to arrive at theoretical insights that were possibly predictive of future, productive classroom practices.
Professionally Developing as a Teacher Educator
There is growing interest in the professional development of teacher educators as the demands, expectations, and requirements of teacher education increasingly come under scrutiny. The manner in which teacher educators learn to traverse their world of work in the development of their knowledge, skills, and ability is important. This article outlines some of the crucial shaping factors in that development, including the transition associated with becoming a teacher educator, the nature of teacher education itself, and the importance of researching teacher education practices. Through a careful analysis of these features, a framework for better understanding what it might mean to professionally develop as a teacher educator is proposed. The framework is designed to draw serious attention to the major aspects of teaching and learning about teaching that are central to shaping scholarship in teacher education and offer insights into the ways in which teacher educators’ professional development might be better understood and interpreted.
What Should Teacher Educators Know and Be Able to Do? Perspectives From Practicing Teacher Educators
Commonsense reasoning says that quality teacher education relies on quality teacher educators. Yet, there is minimal attention to what teacher educators should know and be able to do. Unquestionably, teacher educators cannot teach what they do not know; but what should they know, and should they be prepared? This study of 293 teacher educators investigated the following: What do current teacher educators consider to be the foundation elements of their practice? How do they evaluate their own preparation in these areas? How can their experiences inform the preparation of teacher educators? We use Cochran-Smith and Lytle’s theorizing about “relationships of knowledge and practice” to understand knowledge essential to teacher educating (a term we use to differentiate teaching teachers from teaching students). Our findings reveal that practicing teacher educators often feel unprepared to assume their role but can offer helpful insight into how we should think deliberately about quality teacher educator preparation.
Exploring the Mathematical Knowledge Needed for Teaching Teachers
The purpose of this study is to explore the knowledge demands of teacher educators as they teach disciplinary content to preservice elementary teachers, specifically in mathematics, and to understand how such knowledge is different from that used by K-12 teachers. Drawing from a database including teaching and learning artifacts from five iterations of a content course for preservice teachers, the authors illustrate different forms of knowledge observed across different mathematics teacher educators’ practice and discuss how the observed knowledge forms are different from knowledge used by K-12 teachers in their practice. Finally, the authors discuss how the process used in this study can identify potential components of a knowledge base for teacher education.
Teacher Educator Professional Learning in the Third Space
This article reports on the results of a research project in which 18 teacher educators in three countries—Australia, The Netherlands, and United Kingdom—were interviewed about their experiences of working in the so-called “third space” between schools and universities, particularly in relation to the practicum, or field supervision. Most teacher educators have previously worked as teachers in schools or other educational settings, and when they become teacher educators in universities, they are often involved in the supervision or mentoring of preservice teachers in the field. The research reported in this article examined how university-based teacher educators manage the challenges inherent in working with mentor/cooperating teachers after having been or when still practicing as teachers in schools. Findings from the study showed that for teacher educators, working in the third space involves managing shifting identities between teacher and teacher educator, responding to changing perspectives on learning and teaching, and negotiating sometimes finely balanced and difficult relationships.
Schoolhouse Teacher Educators
While few would disagree that a key component of educating teachers to teach happens on the job, research rarely explores the schoolhouse as a site for teacher education. This study thus focuses on inservice as distinct from preservice teacher education and explores how beginning teachers’ learning about mathematics and literacy instruction was supported within 24 elementary schools in two midwestern school districts. A mixed methodology was used in this exploratory study, including social network and interview data analysis, to examine beginning teachers’ advice- and information-seeking behaviors related to mathematics and literacy. Findings revealed that formal organizational structures inside schools were critical for shaping beginning teachers’ opportunities to learn about instruction, including grade level teams and formal leadership positions.
Observation and Teacher Quality
Teacher preparation programs commonly use observational instruments to assess the progress and the exit performances of teacher candidates. However, while these instruments have been described and several have been studied for effectiveness, the field lacks a close examination of how they position participants: teacher candidates, K-12 pupils, and teacher educators. This article closely examines three classroom observation instruments used in preservice programs. We use critical discourse analysis (CDA) and systemic-functional linguistics to examine how the grammar of these instruments assigns agency and positions participants as teachers and learners, and define their larger discourses of professionalism and accountability. We argue that instruments differ in the extent to which they grant participants agency, thus influencing the assumed pedagogical relations among the teacher educator, teacher candidate, and K-12 pupils. Instruments are not neutral, but reflect the values of the programs that use them, inflected by often contradictory discourses of teacher and student learning.
Can We Identify a Successful Teacher Better, Faster, and Cheaper? Evidence for Innovating Teacher Observation Systems
Teacher observations have become a national education phenomenon, mandated by federal policies and promoted by philanthropists. They are crucial components of teacher evaluation systems that often have high stakes for teachers and school systems, but have sparked little innovation. Recent calls to make teacher evaluations better, faster, and cheaper have been challenged as sitting outside the research evidence. In response, we present new evidence from experimental studies of the Rapid Assessment of Teacher Effectiveness (RATE) that suggests that innovation of that kind is possible. Using a six-item rubric after 4 hr of training, raters were able to identify effective teachers from just 20 min of one lesson as well or better than raters using popular evidence-based instruments with 10 times the items. We discuss our approach, the potential time and cost savings it may provide, and how better, faster, cheaper observation instruments may change how school districts choose to implement state and federal policies.
Can We Identify a Successful Teacher Better, Faster, and Cheaper? Evidence for Innovating Teacher Observation Systems
Teacher observations have become a national education phenomenon, mandated by federal policies and promoted by philanthropists. They are crucial components of teacher evaluation systems that often have high stakes for teachers and school systems, but have sparked little innovation. Recent calls to make teacher evaluations better, faster, and cheaper have been challenged as sitting outside the research evidence. In response, we present new evidence from experimental studies of the Rapid Assessment of Teacher Effectiveness (RATE) that suggests that innovation of that kind is possible. Using a six-item rubric after 4 hr of training, raters were able to identify effective teachers from just 20 min of one lesson as well or better than raters using popular evidence-based instruments with 10 times the items. We discuss our approach, the potential time and cost savings it may provide, and how better, faster, cheaper observation instruments may change how school districts choose to implement state and federal policies.
